Microcomputer kits are commercially available
with resources available to get started.
The Raspberry Pi computing application was
used for the sensors in the building example
just covered.
The product and similar ones are good options
for constructing DIY sensor kits because of
the ability to perform electronics and coding
tasks to activate the sensor kit.
Remember, detailed information about constructing kits and programming
the microcomputer are available in the Resources.
Here is a little more information about activating
the microcomputer.
To get started Raspbian Operating System is
flashed onto an SD card.
Also many Raspberry Pi kits are sold with
NOOBS installer already pre-loaded onto the
SD card so that you can install directly during
the first boot-up of the system.
This hardware is the microcomputer product
used in the under-the-sink water sensor kit.
It is a product that can store, process, and
display data.
After you have the hardware, relevant coding
is needed to activate the microcomputer.
Download the sensorkit.py file from the provided
github repository link.
Place the file on Raspberry Pi or any computer
folder you want to operate from.
Computer codes were written for the under-the-sink
water sensor kit.
The codes are available for use.
Look for the link in the Resources section.
Data can be retrieved and stored either manually
or with online access.
After the program is running, a "data.csv"
file is automatically generated and saved
in the same folder as where the Python program
resides.
Sensor data is logged every five minutes.
To remove the data file a USB drive can be
used to copy the file to another location,
and then open the file with Excel or another
spreadsheet application of your choice.
The Raspberry pi has ethernet and WiFi capabilities
for connecting to the internet.
Sensor output can be connected to any online
database such as Google Sheets.
Exported data can be used to host an online
dashboard.
The dashboard helps with visualizing data.